Gregory Sams was dealt a challenging blow as a young man
when he fell from a tree and was paralyzed
from the waist down.
But this did not stop him,
not in business, where he created the Veggie Burger Company,
and later as an author,
whose life long fascination has been
with the power of the sun.
Gregory has put his findings into a book titled,
"Sun of God,"
in which he says the sun is the source of
vast amounts of intelligence, information that
we cannot live without.
Gregory, I'm fascinated with
the subject of the sun, as you are, obviously,
being the author and taking the time
to write "Sun of God,"
let's talk a little bit about the history
and how humanity has deliberately been driven
away from the understanding of, contact of,
and appreciation of the sun.
Okay, I mean, I characterize this as
the biggest and longest-running cover up in history.
How can you cover up something like the sun?
And it's the biggest elephant in the room,
because there's this huge ball of life
that brings us the light of life
that rises every day, travels across our sky,
and we're just oblivious to it.
People spend more time thinking about
what type of sunglasses they're gonna wear in their life
than they do thinking about the nature of
the most important thing in our life,
and it was once common knowledge,
anywhere you went in the world,
any continent you pick, any culture, any century,
people recognized that this was, the source of life
was itself a life form,
and that's the instinctive, natural mode,
and of course, when the Abrahamic religions came out,
this was the biggest competition.
Sun worship was something people did everywhere,
and there was like hundreds of years,
several hundred years of assiduous suppression of this,
and there are battles that raged back and forth,
and as we know from today's world,
might is not always right.
Sometimes the bad guys win,
and suppress everything else,
and this, everything pagan was regarded as bad,
and once the Roman Empire put the stamp of approval
on Christianity, and then made it the official religion
of the Roman Empire, everything else had to be suppressed.
Even previous Christian gospels, whole Christian communities
and nations were, well in case of the Ophites,
were wiped out, because once they believed in Christ
and in aspects of the Biblical story,
they had very different interpretations of it.
So as well as pagans and people who worshiped the sun,
people who didn't follow the same gospels
were wiped out,
and the only record we have of this
is the Nag Hammadi scrolls.
Mm-hmm.
You know, that were hidden away by some people
who said, "No, we're not burn these documents--"
By the Essenes, mm-hmm.
'Cause everybody else was,
and those came out, and what the shepherds didn't use
to light their fires with, (laughter) the remains we got,
throw a whole different light on the gospel
that still hasn't really come out into the public awareness,
even though the information is there.
We talked with the author Lucy Wyatt,
and she, was discussed this subject,
and that the Essenes were very much oriented toward
the temples of Tel El Amarna,
and the sun cult, I mean calling it a sun cult
under Akhenaten, for example.
So that was a very prominent part of the scene
back in those days in Palestine.
And yet, yes?
The Cathars had aspects of sun worship
in their religion, as well.
As well as not believing in some of the kind of
Christian doctrines,
and they were brutally, half a million or so,
were killed in the 13th, 14th century.
Mm-hmm.
So, this was sort of lost from our culture.
The Indians still see the sun as a living being,
and I talked to a Hindu about this amazing new book
with bringing new ideas up.
They said, "What? What do you mean?"
Well, and Native American Indians, as well,
yes.
Native Americans, Japanese.
Aboriginals of every kind around the world,
yes.
Yeah, and it's just incredibly ungrateful,
and nothing could be less likely
to be a dead ball of gas,
and this is the head set we have now,
and even though solar science discovers more and more
about the intricate energy patterns of the sun,
and about the heliosphere that embraces
the whole solar system in a protective embrace,
it's still, you know, this is all just accidentally going on
from Newtonian principles, and you could just as well take
a model of the human body,
and say, well this is how the lungs work,
and this is how circulation goes,
and this is what bones are made of,
so it's just an automatic function.
There's no consciousness there.
No animating force.
No consciousness there,
so we've figured it all out!
And you know, we do the same with the sun
and with even, you know, oceans and weather systems.
Well let's look at this, then.
Who stands to gain?
I mean, you said earlier that it goes in competition
with the religions that came up at that time,
say a couple thousand years ago,
but let's look further, who stands to gain,
and what do they gain by keeping humanity
disconnected from the sun?
If you go, well obviously we have modern reasons
for doing it, but there's a continuum going on
from the story that we have of the Garden of Eden,
where the snake offers a fruit to Adam and Eve,
which is gonna give them knowledge of good and evil,
and give them knowledge of what it's like to feel like God.
This sort of communion with God,
and worship in the old Vedic sense of the word meant
imbuing the qualities of that which you are worshiping.
It wasn't just ritual and bowing and scraping,
it was imbuing those qualities,
knowing what it's like to be that,
and the Ophites who I mentioned earlier,
they believed that, they worshipped the snake
that was bringing us this knowledge,
and it was suppresed by Jehovah, who said,
"No, you musn't go there, you musn't know this!"
And knowledge of the divinity of the sun
is part of that ongoing process.
Now, in the beginning of the 20th century,
there was radical research,
a scientist won the Nobel prize
for recognizing the important of sunlight to human health
on all sorts of different levels.
Yes.
And they started to design hospitals
so that the wards would receive maximum sunlight.
They had special glass that let UV light through
so that patients could bask in UV light,
and they would step it up,
if you were red haired and white skinned,
you'd only get like 10 minutes a day of that
at the beginning,
but they had whole sunlight-based treatments
to cure people of diseases,
'cause not only does it make you feel good
and raise your spirits, which helps things heal,
but it also brings us lots of vitamin D,
and has all sorts of physical things that it does, as well.
So that hospital design was being radically changed,
but then, they discovered antibiotics.
Yes.
And so the antibiotics, you didn't need to spend a week
or two or three curing somebody,
in and out in a couple of days, you know,
and back to dark, dank hospital wards
that all these superbugs now breed happily in,
and spread all the iatrogenic or hospital-generated diseases
through the population,
and nowadays, there's a huge industry
that survives on selling you UV-protective sunglasses,
and chemicals that you rub all over your body
that your body absorbs
to stop this wonderful sunlight from getting through,
and it's been demonized as something like food additives
and radioactive waste, you know,
sunlight, the light of life.
But now we equate it
to dangerous radiation.
Yeah.
Yes.
And it's just, it's so awful
that people are frightened of the most important thing.
It is, and so now we have a chronically
vitamin D3 deficient societies,
which seems to be implicated
in just about every chronic disease known to man,
is vitamin D3 deficiency, among other things,
but that's one of the major ones.
And that's really good for the pharmaceutical industry
if they can step in and do that.
Yes, it is.
And depression, there's so many,
we know that if you go out on a nice, beautiful sunny day,
it lifts our spirits.
Everywhere you go, people are happier on a sunny day
compared to a cold, grey, rainy day, and--
And there's an innate love affair
with the sunrises and sunsets.
Yeah, it's the most beautiful light show on earth,
and yet we don't think, "Why does the sunlight
"lift our spirits?"
And yet you can go into a room and turn the lights up
as bright as you like, and it's not gonna bring
a smile to your face,
and you can sit in a sauna at the same time,
and it's not gonna do it.
Sunlight has that difference,
and we rarely think that maybe
it's the old good vibrations,
'cause light is nothing more than a vibration.
And it makes us feel good.
And maybe that's because it's the loving vibration
coming from a living being
instead of a bulb in the ceiling.
So now let's get into the sun.
We can kind of launch in on any number of levels.
One of them I was intrigued with
that you wrote about in your book
is the seven layers of the sun,
and also this fourth state called plasma.
I mean, and then just the sheer power of it alone.
There's this one part in there where you say,
"A single solar flare could power the US
"for 40,000 years."
That's right.
40,000 years.
That's the power of the solar flare.
Meaning we should probably look at
a new kind of solar technology.
Maybe just gathering heat and warmth from solar collectors
isn't what it's about.
So on any of those levels,
let's launch into what is the sun,
and then what is the sun in relationship to the earth
from what you have begun exploring.
Okay, well we,
in terms of the relationship to the earth,
we have the James Lovelock's guide, for instance,
which has introduced us to the notion
that the earth itself is a living system.
That everything is interacting together
and working, as if you apply the criteria for a living being
to what's going on on the earth,
it would fit the bill.
The sun is a million times bigger than the earth,
huge hive of energy fields,
and we're completely dependent on it.
But it's not just this hot ball in the sky.
It's got seven very distinct levels to it,
very different in lots of ways
beyond just the temperature of them,
and it starts off in the core.
The core is an explosion,
that it's a million tons of TNT,
megatons of TNT a second,
it's just every second, the energy coming out of the sun.
So it's five million tons of the sun's energy,
is being conver- matter, clip this,
but five million tons of the sun's matter
is being converted to energy every second.
Now the amount of matter converted to energy at Hiroshima
was the amount you get in a dime or an English 1p piece.
That was the, this is 5 million tons a second,
which would blow us all past Pluto.
But around the core of the sun,
the next layer is as thick as 25 earths,
and that's a dense area,
and that's the containment area
that stops that from coming out.
The next layer is 250,000 kilometers wide, convection zone.
Here, you've got a whole different nature
with these roiling bubbles of energy coming up,
and you've got the photosphere,
you've got the chromasphere beyond that,
then interface layer,
and then the corona.
So there's all these different layers
doing different things.
Inside the sun, some of the layers rotate
at different speeds from each other,
and this creates a, it's thought to create a dynamo effect
which could charge the sun's corona.
And on the surface side of it, on the chromasphere,
it's just this interlinked network of electromagnetic fields
with their field lines all intertangled,
and sometimes they move around on the surface,
they're associated with solar flares.
It's just such an energy device,
and the corona takes up more space than the sun itself,
and that's one massive energy field that we know
very little about.
It's described as the most mysterious aspect of the sun,
but the same scientists who describe it as mysterious
say it controls the solar flares,
the coronal mass ejections,
the coronal filaments, and the sunspots.
They say this is all managed by the corona,
but we don't know anything about the corona. (laughter)
Mm-hmm.
It's almost like an interesting- a very complex system
of checks and balances,
so that it can feed and send through
critical information, plus the light,
without essentially frying everything in its sphere.
Yeah, it's a very delicate, complex organism or machine,
or whatever you want to call it,
and the idea that this just accidentally
coagulates out of a big cloud of cosmic dust,
because we know the mechanics of it,
is the analogy I used earlier, to say the same thing is true
of a human being.
Of the human body.
However it forms and creates itself,
there's obviously life in there, a manifestation
of the life force, or the consciousness if you like it,
that permeates the whole universe,
whether that's called qi or prana or Holy Spirit
or orgone energy,
you know, it's been long acknowledged that there is
an energy field that permeates everything.
Yes, and we would certainly have to assume
behind an energy field is the word intelligence, as well,
which we can get to.
Let's talk about the plasma,
the fourth state called plasma in the sun.
Mm-hmm, well this is the state of matter,
I mean, we're very familiar with solids
and liquids and gases,
and we forget,
or we only really realized recently
that 99 percent plus of the matter
in the universe is plasma.
And this is where you don't have that perfect balance
of protons and electrons in the atom,
you've got one more or less electron,
and this makes it really conducive to
the electromagnetic force,
so electromagnetic energy charges through that,
as demonstrated on earth where the most common plasma
example we have on earth is lightning,
and the air is turned to plasma,
at which point, vroom, the charge can come down on it.
And you see those plasma bowls
where the plasma follows your fingers,
which is great.
And that's what the sun and all stars are is plasma,
so the matter inside them is not fixed,
it's fluid, even though it's not liquid,
it moves, even where it's 15 times the density of gold
in the core of the sun,
it is still moving, and the electromagnetic force
is charging through it.
We don't really know much about the electromagnetic force,
'cause you can't weigh it or measure it
or take samples of it.
But it is what keeps us alive.
Our life force, if you take that energy away,
you know, we're just wormfood.
That is what makes the difference, and--
It's a delicate,
seems like a very delicate dance between
the photonic types of energies coming in
and the mineral balances in the body,
and whatever that dance is in between,
and the electromagnetic charges
within, seems to essentially without it,
everything dies.
Yeah.
So with us, the actual energy of our consciousness
and our mind is the least understood.
Our least understood aspect of our existence
is what consciousness is.
Some scientists actually say consciousness
is an illusion of the brain
and yet, whilst it's the least understood aspect of it,
we think we know enough about consciousness
to know that nothing else can have it,
that it can be only combined with these combination
of neurons and fingers and eyes and ears,
and you need all this for consciousness.
Right.
Whereas perhaps all this is just a vehicle
through which our consciousness is expressed.
And to look at the sun and say,
"Well it's got all the energy,
"it's got all these energy fields, it's got this huge,"
I mean, the heliosphere comes off of the corona
as it spins, embraces the whole solar system,
and stops it from being battered to pieces
by cosmic rays,
and also creates these amazing exchanges at the poles
of all the planets called the auroras.
We have these wonderful northern lights
and Aurora Borealis and Aurora Australis,
and these dancing curtains of light,
and that's happening on Jupiter, on Saturn, on Uranus,
where the sun's magnetic field
meets the magnetic field of each of the planets.
And again, we just see all this as, you know,
accidental behavior, like avalanches falling off a mountain
or wind from undigested food, you know, (laughter)
and everything,
yet we go to such incredible efforts
to create energy ourselves,
whether it's in power stations or batteries or fires,
you know, we really work to create energy
and do stuff with it,
and yet we assume that all these other energetic phenomena
happening in the universe are accidental
manifestations of nothing.
It makes no sense.
There was that recent discovery about the magnetic openings?
The magnetic openings between the sun and the earth
that are occurring.
Oh, the magnetic portals.
Like the pulsation every eight--
Every eight minutes.
Yeah, tons of high energy particles
pass between this magnetic portal
joining the earth and the sun.
It's amazing, isn't it?
I was gonna say, accident?
(laughter)
I mean, what's so interesting I find about this conversation
is that even as we're having this conversation,
and you've given so much thought and research
to the subject of the sun,
so much on certain levels still cannot be answered.
We don't understand what the sun is,
we don't understand the multidimensionality
of the earth, no less the sun,
and again now, if you're talking photons,
you're talking information.
So let's talk about the sun
as a source of information.
Okay, well photons or light is,
we now know, it's the most efficient means
of conveying information, conceivable.
So through optical cables,
I mean they're now,
actually now this is five years ago I was reading
that we could now produce an optical cable
capable of carrying all the internet traffic on the planet
through one cable,
because light, it doesn't have substance,
so you can compress it,
and it's this incredible conveyor of information,
and you know we have beings of light,
we could talk about beings of light,
we don't talk about beings of concrete or mud or--
(laughter) Right.
When we go into our highest potential,
it's always a being of light.
And it is, it is the huge,
of course and also we see light,
physicists see light as embracing
the whole electromagnetic spectrum.
I mean, what we see as visilble light is just
a tiny, tiny fraction of all those vibrations
that are out there, and they're all photons
vibrating at different levels,
and we don't really know what a photon is.
I have a little bit in my book about
the history of scientists trying to discover
whether a photon is a particle or a wave,
and it all gets very confusing,
and afterwards I said,
well if you get confused by this, don't worry,
so are the scientists for centuries!
(laughter)
Yes.
But nonetheless, this is the most efficient way
to convey information, and we are being
literally bombarded.
Yeah, drenched in it.
Drenched in it.
Yeah.
Bombarded is what the people who are trying
to get us frightened of it would say.
That's, no, not bombarded, drenched
in a glorious way.
And so, I mean, do you have any,
we're going a little esoteric here
and off the track for a bit,
but what do you suppose we're being drenched in
by way of information?
I mean, we're having to assume that information
is being passed to us, not just light and heat,
information is being passed to all living systems
on this planet.
The plants, the animals, us.
Well this is where we need to reeducate ourselves,
because our ancestors knew a lot about this,
and they built great monuments,
which were not just designed to say,
"Oh, sun, you are great, I'm gonna put all this,
"move all these stones and put them in place."
These were information channels,
ways of receiving different types of information
from the sun and stars,
and in India, there's more knowledge of this retained,
and there's the sun salutation yoga exercise,
which is done every morning by millions of Hindus,
which is at sunrise, a particular way
of pulling those vibrations as energies into yourself.
Yes.
I was once doing, in India,
in the morning,
it was a very strong Jupiter,
and Jupiter's my, one of my planets
in my horoscope,
and I was just staring at Jupiter,
meditating on it, and this woman came up to me,
it's a very bizarre moment,
and she saw what I was doing,
and she said, "Oh, when we're receiving the energies
"from Jupiter, we hold our tongue in this particular way
"as we're breathing in,"
and I thought, wow!
Interesting.
Yes.
Somebody who's into it more than me
picked up what I was doing and told me how to do it better,
but there's all this sort of type,
so it's like, nothing to do with the sun, really,
but when the tsunami hit,
there was this group of aboriginal islanders
who when people got to the island,
everybody assumed they would be dead.
And they hadn't.
They had know, that the tsunami was coming.
People asked them and they said,
"We listened to the birds."
Mm-hmm.
"We heard it from the birds,"
and it's just this lost connection with our world,
whether it's the sun,
and my book isn't really just about the sun,
I really use that as a anchor point,
because I think it's really very clear,
I make it very clear that the sun is a living being,
and our important connection with it,
but it makes the, it opens the ground up
to be aware of how we need to connect with the oceans,
with the trees, with the winds, with the mountains,
with all the other aspects of this living world,
this living universe
that we're a very small part of.
Yes, and you were talking a moment ago about
some of the Hindus, millions of Hindus who understand
and appreciate and use this yogic expression
of the sun salutation,
and also it's known,
I did a little research recently
about the sun's effect in sun gazing,
and the effect of sun gazing on all of the master glands,
and our master glands seems to be seriously compromised
as a species right now.
We're talking about the pineal and the hypothalamus
and the pituitary glands.
All of these are the controllers
of all of the systems, the endocrine system
and all the hormonal functions of the body,
and this is very much governed by our connection to,
or lack of connection with sunlight,
and specifically, taking sunlight in through the eyes.
Yes, I had,
I discovered so much through writing this book,
and after writing it, and one of the things I discovered
was sun gazing, after I finished the book.
Yes, after you'd finished it.
I've got a chapter called "Say Hello Back,"
which is the responding, sending vibrations back
with your eyes closed, facing it,
which is a good technique.
But then I went to a lecture from this HRM man,
who travels the world doing it,
and actually found out about sun gazing,
and I've sort of been in,
which I did once when I was 18,
but I'd never done since.
And then I've since built my abilities up,
so I do do sungazing,
sometimes in puddles, sometimes through trees,
sometimes directly at the sun,
and yeah, it's a really powerful, powerful charge.
It's like having a wonderful shiatsu massage.
It is, and in fact,
something's just coming back into my memory
I had forgotten all about,
and this would have been from about 25 years ago.
I used to see a woman who was famous in our town
as a healer.
She wore a little starchy white nurse's uniform,
and she was stern, and she was a nurse,
but she could see and heal,
and she did it through reflexology.
And she was in her 80's at this time,
and her name was Mrs. Whipple.
Oh, right!
Yes, and Mrs. Whipple told me one day,
she said, "Dear, you need to go into the sun in the morning,
"and you bring the sun into the solar plexus,
"and allow the sun, once it comes into the solar plexus
"to split into its rays,
"and you can take it up through the chakras
"in its color forms, you know, from indigo down to red,
"but absorb it, and be appreciative of it."
So one day shortly after that, I did that one morning.
I went out and did that, just to see what
Mrs. Whipple was up to,
and I had this overwhelming urge to start running.
And I hadn't been running for quite a long time,
and I was a runner prior to that, but years,
and I couldn't stop.
I was so brimming with energy,
I just ran!
I ran at least a couple miles before I stopped
and headed back home and thought,
"Where is this coming from?"
And I had, until you just said that,
I had completely forgotten about this experience.
I was supercharged from the sun,
and that was taking in in the solar plexus,
rather than through sun gazing.
Yeah.
Well, it's solar energy,
it's a different application of solar energy
that we forget about, yeah.
And the thing is,
we could sit here and share stories,
swap stories and say,
"Oh yeah, and I remember that time,"
but there's something really larger that we need to
consider here, in terms of using,
remembering the sun in a way that becomes integrated
back into human consciousness
on a very conscious level,
to make that choice,
and one of the things,
you said consciousness, again,
using the word consciousness,
as you point out in the book,
consciousness is the building block of all matter.
We look at this material universe,
and again, it has to be, the formation of the earth itself,
you write about the formation of the earth itself,
and what you think that may be in regards to the sun,
if you care to go into that now.
Well it was a way maybe,
but I see the planets as,
I don't really know what their function is to the sun,
but I'm sure there is a function,
whether it's a garden or a playground
or what part Jupiter and the earth and Saturn
play in the sun.
There's obviously a symbiotic relationship between them.
And we're formed, these planets were formed
out of the afterbirth from the sun,
so after the sun is formed from a cloud of gas,
the planets, the various planets are formed,
and on this planet, all the energy of life,
I mean every single bit of the energy we have
is recycled sunlight,
and all of the matter that we are made of
and that the planets are made of
is recycled stardust,
because we started off with hydrogen and a little bit
of helium,
and it's on stars, which are the transmutation machines
of the cosmos,
that all the other elements were brought into being
that make possible planets and the energy of life,
and it's this incredible kind of evolution of matter
from hydrogen that takes place, that stars are doing
and what is the purpose of having all of this?
In a sense, we're all energy being recycled.
If you take the Einstein's equivalence of e=mc squared,
showing that matter and energy are different manifestations
of the same thing,
well the beginning, the matter side of it
was just hydrogen and helium.
Now, if you were looking, almost as if energy
and that intelligence and consciousness of energy
is experiencing different existences,
I'm one of the existences it's experiencing,
this aloe vera plant is another one,
trees are another, wind.
They're all different experiences of existence.
And in this type of an experience,
we're taking in,
we're energy which has been reformulated as matter,
which is taking in energy from the sun
and reformulating that as the energy of life.
So, there's the sort of transition, transmutation
from energy to matter to energy to matter
which is going on, and I find it really interesting,
the little bit of it I play,
and I'm sure the tree finds its bit interesting,
and a tornado or a thundercloud or a weather system
finds its part interesting,
and it's just all going, and we see,
we understand that life somehow imbues intelligence,
entails intelligence within it,
and we see how incredibly intelligent plants are
at mimicking,
they'll send out scents that attracts the predators,
or something that's attacking them,
these incredible intelligence manifested,
and yet, when we see inanimate,
what we class inanimate objects, like the ocean,
creating these huge currents of the gulf stream,
I mean there're currents connecting all the oceans,
they run on the surface, they run below the ground,
they're very functional,
they manage, part manage the world's climate systems,
and yet we assume this is all accidental somehow,
it's just nothing but natural forces creating
these very defined currents
doing these very defined things,
'cause we can't allow ourselves to think that all these
water molecules--
Anything other than
ourselves has intelligence.
'Cause it has, and our intelligence, our brain
is filled with hundreds of billions of neurons
that are all acting independently.
Nobody's controlling or managing them,
but they're creating this intelligence organization
from the bottom up.
In the oceans, you've got all these sort of water molecules,
and yet we cannot imagine that intelligence
from the bottom up is manifesting there.
We don't even really see it in the termite mound,
even though the termite mound's
got this fabulous bunch of architecture
and ventilation, perfect ventilation inside,
how are they doing it?
There's this- it's only really when you come to humans
that you get top-down control,
and this is all the governments of the world saying,
"This is what a house is gonna be,
"this is how much you get paid for your work,
"these are all sort of the musts,"
and they're trying to micromanage
this whole chaotic system called humanity,
and the more they get involved,
the more of a mess we have,
and then they say, "We need more controls,
"we need more top-down management."
But when you look out at nature,
it's all bottom-up.
Yes, I mean you would say
nature is very intuitive.
We're probably the least intuitive thing on the planet
as human beings.
Yeah.
Because we've allowed this
conscious part of the mind,
the animalistic part of the mind,
that's based sheerly for survival
to become a little too sophisticated for its own good
on one level, while suppressing the greater mind
which is the intuitive aspect.
Absolutely, I mean they're both, we need a balance.
We need a balance, yes.
Certainly I don't want the person designing my airplane
to be totally intuitive, you know, trial and error.
No, I understand what you're saying,
but still, that permeates the consciousness
and intelligence that permeates all things,
and so let's look at what might be
say beyond the sun even.
I mean, you write about dark matter in your book,
that this is, plays a major role in the
intelligence consciousness as the architect
of everything that takes form within the universe.
Oh, you think black holes or dark matter?
Dark matter.
'Cause I don't really talk about dark matter a lot,
because I see dark matter as a construct
to ignore what is there.
Yes, okay, black holes.
Well, let's stick with dark matter for a minute,
because dark matter was created to explain why
galaxies don't fall apart.
'Cause it's all this assumption that they've got to be
held in by the gravitational attraction
that's holding them in, so the stars on the outer side
of a galaxy shouldn't be moving at the same speed as
the stars at the inside of a galaxy,
'cause all stars are moving, they're in motion,
they travel in pairs and most of them are paired out,
and there's no sort of physical way of explaining
how the galaxy doesn't fall apart.
So they say, "Well there must be all this dark matter.
"We can't see it, we can't detect it, there's no
"evidence for it, but if there wasn't something there,
"all these stars, all these dumb, unintelligent matter
"would just fly out, fly apart."
And I say the reason galaxies don't fall apart
is 'cause they're not stupid!
Right.
And it's as simple as that.
You don't, there's consciousness there.
You don't need that to create some completely
ridiculous construct to explain them.
Black holes I love.
I don't know quite what's going on.
Black holes, they're not really a mystical,
esoteric concept.
They are matter, just compressed so, so tight
that the light doesn't escape from them
and we can't see them.
I say they're just that, that's a pretty amazing star
from what's coming out of the other side of a black hole,
if there is another side, I don't know.
I did write a whole chapter about black holes,
and I don't really know enough,
I'm going off on my outer reaches of my mind,
and I dropped that after a while,
but I do think they're fascinating,
and there's a lot to them, but...
Well one of the things you write in the book
is even starting back in, if you want to go back to
Biblical times and references even in Genesis,
"Let there be light."
So the light is preceding all else.
Yeah, it's well represented as that.
Been most of the, well not most of Christianity,
Judaism and Islam all drew heavily on Zoroastrianism.
Zoroastrianism was the first to come out with
the good and bad concepts and heaven and hell,
but they had an in between place for the undecided people,
so if it was just whatever tipped you one way or the other,
you could go in the middle for a while.
But they had a god of light.
The prime god of Zoroastrianism was Ahura Maz-
or still is Ahura Mazda, the god of light.
And that was their god, was light itself,
and the sun and many other deities existed
as lesser entities.
Fire, where they worshiped fire,
but that's 'cause fire was a manifestation of light,
and this was picked up in Christianity
by a god of light, but light itself
doesn't have any standing and the sun
doesn't have any standing,
but there's this sort of ephemerous spiritual light
that we don't see, we don't really aware of
unless you're in some high mystical place,
but yeah, light, pure vibration is at the beginning
of it all, and to my mind, that was the beginning,
the first force was energy,
and it's very hard to get our heads around,
but energy doesn't need a place to be,
because it's just a vibration.
It doesn't have to be some place.
And as just a vibration,
it doesn't experience time.
So what was there before the Big Bang,
before all this came into being?
If you look at before, outside the sense of time,
you could have vibration.
And that vibration would have been,
could have been the very beginning,
and if you look at what came first, matter or energy,
energy is the only possible candidate,
'cause energy could have come first,
and then condensed into matter.
Maybe it was a big whoosh instead of a big bang,
or a big bang is when you turn matter into energy
in a nuclear bomb,
but if you turn energy into matter,
maybe it's (whoosh).
It's something, yes exactly.
And intelligently directed.
Yes.
Self-organizing.
Self-organizing the intelligence of that--
Big Bang doesn't feel right.
What?
Big Bang doesn't feel right,
never has to me.
No, Big Bang doesn't feel right.
And David Bohm, when we created this plasma,
a plasma of electrons,
in his famous Lawrence Livermore laboratory experiment,
he saw that these pure electrons were self organizing
to perform tasks, acting as if they were living beings.
And energy has this capacity to it,
and that takes my sort of reproductive thing back,
'cause if it did start with pure energy,
the first thing that energy does with the matter it creates
is form these big bowls of hydrogen and helium,
and what do they do? They create more energy.
With matter, energy creates matter,
and then that matter self-assembles to create energy,
and energy creates more different types of matter,
us being one of those,
then we create, we take in sunlight and use that energy.
It's just great sort of,
and it's much more exciting than just being energy,
I suppose!
Yes, yes!
Well so normally I ask this in the beginning,
but clearly, this passion about the energy and sun
came from somewhere.
Where in you was this given birth to?
What inspired this?
Well I had an epiphany when I was 17.
When I did a sungazing for the first,
only time in my life initially,
and I sort of had an experience in Berkeley, California,
where I was starting into the sun,
and I recognized that it was a life form,
very clearly,
but I didn't really use that information
to do anything with it.
I got sucked into the whole natural food industry,
and veggie burgers, and spent 30-odd years
doing all of that.
And it was only when people talked about the SETI,
the search for extraterrestrial intelligence,
I would kind of break cover,
and I'd say, "Why are they sending all these
"machines out there?"
You know, meanwhile, the most intelligent thing
in our neighborhood, we're completely ignoring
and sending cassette tapes and CD's out to space
to look for intelligence, you know, duh!
But I never sort of thought about writing about it.
I wrote my first book on common sense.
"Data's out of Date,"
and then after that I'm starting on a new book,
and the new book was actually on a different subject,
but within a couple of chapters,
I started to go into topic drift
and talk about early man's approach to the sun,
and I kept on that thread for a bit,
and that's what made me realize,
"This is your book,"
and I couldn't believe that I hadn't thought about
writing a book about it before,
'cause I love doing things,
bringing things into the culture
that people either don't know about
or have forgotten,
and in the '60s it was "you are what you eat,"
what you eat affects your health
was a really out-there hippy concept.
Nobody believed that diet affected health
in any way.
In the '60s, that's true.
And it's quite extraordinary.
Now, you sort of ask people,
I've done a few times, how many people believe
diet affects health, and they all raise their hands
think, "What a stupid question!"
You know, obvious.
Right, it's so true.
And this is the awareness of the sun as a life form
is so obvious and so hidden from our culture,
and once I sort of recognized,
"My God, this is really a very important thing to do,"
and great fun.
Well it seems like it's a progression, also.
To recognize that what you put into your body as fuel
affects what you become.
Okay, step number one.
And then we start looking at the,
kind of a continued journey of the quality
of what you're putting in.
I mean, first it was just maybe replace white bread
with brown bread, and so on.
And now we're coming more into the whole foods,
juices, organic,
and now more even into liquids, lots of chlorophyll.
Now we're getting closer to the sun.
Yeah, yeah.
Everything we've done, certainly in the West
and certainly we live in California,
so certainly in California has been a journey back toward,
really toward the sun in terms of the food chain.
'Cause I know we're heavily focused on chlorophyll,
wheatgrasses, green juices,
which are simply allowing our bodies to absorb
the creation of the sun, the chlorophyll from the sun.
Yeah, pure--
So we're going closer and closer
to the sun even in dietary forms, now.
Yeah, because it's all created by,
photosynthesis is made by light,
and we're getting, get with the chlorophyll
and spirulina and things that are really very, very pure.
Spirulinas, and so forth.
Pre-transmissions, yeah.
So now--
And we had the Mayan calendar, so much interest
in the Mayan calendar over here,
and the druids and Stonehenge,
books on the pyramids,
and yet there was that one common thread
that held them all together,
which was recognition of the sun
as the most important character in our movie,
and that doesn't come through in books on the Mayan calendar
and the pyramids.
It just seems to be sort of skirted over
by everybody looking at these subjects,
and not even intentionally, it's just not in our head set.
It was burnt out, literally, for many centuries.
Indeed, and even when you look at
some of the authors that are revealing
some of the darker agendas that have taken place
through secret societies and so forth,
it's almost as though the sun becomes inadvertently
set aside or dismissed in that journey, as well,
because it was the quote, "sun worship,"
or symbolism was co-opted by groups that may have had
a more undesirable agenda.
Yes.
Still, the sun gets thrown out,
the baby gets thrown out with the bath water.
Because the Freemasons still recognize
that it's been sort of suppressed in all of us,
and they still recognize it,
because they do, oh, it's bad, you know?
Yeah, it's really tricky.
But I've seen that lot.
I have, too.
I get Google word alerts for "sun worship" and "sun god,"
and all of the, any time that comes up on Google,
I get the alert.
And more than nine out of 10 times,
it's something saying, "Oh, it's bad,
"because the Masons do it,"
or we shouldn't, there's Christian things saying
"Why are we worshiping on a Sunday?"
You know, that's bad, that's evil, it's the satan,
it's incredible how people would demonize this.
We have to become a little more
sophisticated, because I mean,
people need to, I think we have to become
a little clearer in our thinking,
and separate out, I mean, there are
agendas galore, and have been for the last several
thousand years.
Separate out the agendas with the reality
of what was originally the base subject of interest.
Yes, of course, I mean, if the Masonics or whomever
chooses to still acknowledge or worship the sun,
well, that's just a remnant from something they received
long ago that was core to their belief system.
It doesn't, we just said this, it doesn't mean that
this is an evil practice in and of itself,
we just don't agree with those particular agendas.
Yeah, and they're still getting power and energy from it.
Yes, they're utilizing it.
And we're not.
So it's a bit of a challenge.
Yeah, where's the sense in that?
Mm-hmm.
I mean, the whole thing's so
upside-down.
I think it's why I find the sun so absolutely fascinating.
besides that fact that it's,
I think this is the, probably the most important journey
humanity really needs to go on now,
is an attempt to begin understanding
what the sun is, the nature of going back into rhythm
with that information, and right now, what about
this period of time?
Many people talk about the sun and a lot of
the solar activity, the shifting of the magnetic fields,
the dimensional shift,
and all that's going on at this time.
How do you perceive the human interaction
with the sun, and its affect on us during this transition?
I know, it's kind of a big question.
I mean if you had just any intuitive thoughts
or feelings on it.
Your own impressions.
I think the most important thing that we can do
during this whole transition is to recognize
the nature of the sun,
and certainly, we have this wealth of
technological knowledge about the sun
that we never used to have,
and if you were to take a Mayan or a druid or
an Egyptian and set them down and tell them
what we know about the sun right now,
it'd blow their minds.
Unless they already knew it.
Well--
More or less.
Not about the seven layers
and the heliosphere and the nucleosynthesis
that makes all the elements out of it.
They would just say,
they would be so many more reasons
to connect with the sun, they would probably
be able to do stuff with that information
to refine and develop the techniques they already had,
and yet we do nothing with it,
because we're completely ignorant about
the nature of the sun, even though we know
so much about it, and to combine those two
would be really powerful.
So let's talk about the more practical
part of your book in terms of what we can do,
some of the exercises you talk about
about becoming acquainted again with the sun,
that every human being can do.
Well, it's the simplest one is,
that I developed is just where you shut your eyes
and look straight at it.
Now some people will find their eyes
are so sensitive that even that's difficult,
you know, you shouldn't be squinting,
and with sunglasses,
the UV-protected sunglasses is very possibly
as much a cause of skin cancer,
more a cause of skin cancer than sun.
Because our skin produces melanin which protects us,
it doesn't protect us, it helps absorb the good rays
from the sun, and process them properly,
and it's important to that process.
And that's determined by how much UV
is reaching is.
Now where are we gonna measure ultraviolet light?
Through our eyes or through our skin?
I mean, our eyes are our light-receiving organs.
Yes.
And if you then put sunglasses on
so you can't tell how much UV light is coming through,
your skin isn't gonna react,
so you're gonna be open to burning,
and that's a very counterproductive thing to wear that.
But anyway, just looking with your eyes shut
at the sun and just feeling the rays,
feeling those vibrations and bringing them into your body,
sending them through your body to sort of heal
ailing difficult parts, you know,
taking it in on the inhalation,
on the exhalation, you're blowing out the garbage
and the bad vibrations you don't want in your body.
That's a really nice, easy, five, 10 minute,
15 minute thing you can do, do any day.
Yogis will know about this sun worship
with the sun salutation in the morning.
Getting sunlight on your skin, really important,
and something as simple as sesame oil or olive oil
are the ideal means to help your body absorb the sunlight
without having any damage from it,
much better than all the creams
and things that you're being, people spend
millions of dollars advertising to us.
It's just such an asset to good health
and good spirituality.
I mean, it's corny, but dark, bad deeds
or dark deeds are always done in the dark of night.
That's right.
That's when people went out and did bad stuff,
because you don't want to do it
when the sun is shining and it's a nice day,
it's not conducive to it,
it lifts our spirituality.
Covert activity works best in the dark.
Absolutely.
Cloaked.
It's not just because you can't see it,
it's because--
There's a deeper psychology to that.
Absolutely, yeah, yeah.
And we all know this.
We all know that as soon as the sun hits our skin,
we suddenly feel enlivened, we can take a deeper breath,
as I mentioned earlier, sunrise and sunset
is a ritual that virtually everyone
on the planet appreciates,
and so maybe we just begin by very gentle explorations
of the sun, and maybe even inquiry and meditation.
Yeah, but the awareness is the first thing.
It's like once you know that what you eat
affects your health, then you start to look at your diet
and say, "Oh yeah, this made me sick,
"this made me feel good," and you learn.
And once you know that the sun is a living being,
we're receiving loving vibrations from that living being,
you start to react in positive, productive, useful ways
to that knowledge.
Yes, I think it's critical,
especially now, as we're expanding our awareness
and consciousness as a species,
which appears to be happening.
We have evidence of that every day.
Yeah, pretty much.
From thousands of people around the planet,
so I say, I'm with you, let the sun
be our greatest ally in this journey.
Great.
It's there for us.
Thank you, Gregory.
My pleasure.
The sun has been a central theme
that's coming up again and again
in our interviews.
If you'd like to explore Gregory's work a little further,
you can order "Sun of God,"
and that's pronounced S-U-N of God,
through Amazon and other major booksellers.
Along this line, you might also enjoy my conversations
with Lucy Wyatt and Walter Crettendon.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.